Mahabank Education Loan
Mahabank Education Loan
In today’s competitive world where advancements and opportunities are ample, obtaining a higher education has become essential for career growth and success. We empower students by providing them with the financial support they need to pursue their desired courses and unlock opportunities for a brighter future.
Start with Bank of Maharashtra tailored Education Loan and turn your educational dreams into reality!
Interest Rate
7.10
%P.A *
Get a Call Back
Education Loan schemes:
1.
Model Education Loan Scheme
Know More...
2.
Maha Bank Skill Loan Scheme
Know More...
3.
PM - Vidya Laxmi: Education Loan Scheme
Know More...
Features & Benefits
Documents Required
Interest Rates
EMI Calculator
Subsidies Scheme
FAQs
Features & Benefits
Features and benefits of Education Loan
Low EMI
Higher Loan Amount
Track my Loan
Simplified Disbursement
No Hidden Charges
No Prepayment Penalty
No Margin Money. Up to 100% financing (for Premier institutions)
No collateral security (for Premier institutions).
ROI concession to Girl student.
Instant In-principle sanction before registration in Institutions.
Longer repayment period upto 15 years (Excluding Moratorium) to reduce the EMI burden.
Loan will cover tuition fees, hostel fees, cost of books etc.
Documents Required
Documents required for Education Loan
KYC documents of Student, Applicant, Co-Applicant and Guarantor
Photo ID (PAN Card/Passport/Driving License/Voter ID/Aadhar Card)
Address Proof (Passport/Driving License/Voter ID/Aadhar Card/Ration Card/Light Bill)
Income documents of parents/Co-Applicants
For Salaried persons
Last 2 years ITR (if Taxable Income) & Form 16
Last 3 months salary slips
Last 6 months salary account statements
Documents of Businessman / self employed
Last 2 years ITR
Last 2 years audited balance sheets & Profit loss statements along with computation of income
Last 12 months business bank account statement
Tax paid challan/26AS
Business Proof - Properitor - shop act / Gramapanchayath certificate
For Agriculturist -
Those who do not file Income Tax Returns, income certificate issued by Tahasildar, 8A & all 7/12 extract along with supporting income proofs
Tahasildar income certificate for interest subvention claim
Other documents related to academics
10th std mark sheet
12th std mark sheet
Diploma/Degree mark sheet of all semesters
Requisite exam scorecard /proof of obtaining seat in merit based selection process(DTE/JEE score card studies in India, GRE/TOEFL score card studying abroad or equivalent requisite exam score card)
Confirmation letter from institute with free structure or I-20(studying abroad)
Receipts of fees paid already
Quotation of the laptop (fee structure of college to specially mention the requirement of course)
If student has taken gap during academic year affidavit for gap
Declaration of source of margin money if applicable.
Declaration of job opportunities, expected salary after getting job.
Declaration for option of repayment of interest during moratorium period.
If plot/house/flat is offered as security - Latest search & valuation report & all property related documents as per housing loan checklist
If takeover from other bank/institution, sanction letter with statement of account .
Interest Rates
Education Loan Interest Rates
Bank of Maharashtra helps you to provide financial assistance/support to meritorious student for pursuing higher studies with a very low EMI options. The
EMI Calculator
on the website works this out for you.
Check your eligibility, upload your documents and obtain the loan sanction.
Education Loan Interest Rate
7.10
%P.A *
For more Interest Rates & Charges
Click here
EMI Calculator
Education Loan EMI Calculator
Course Period (Months)
*
Loan Amount
*
Year wise
Amount Required in Year 1
Interest Rate ( % P.A )
*
Tenure (Months)
*
Moratoriam Period (Months)
*
0 (No Grace Period)
1 Month
2 Months
3 Months
4 Months
5 Months
6 Months
7 Months
8 Months
9 Months
10 Months
11 Months
12 Months
Will you be paying during the study + moratorium period
No
Yes, full simple interest
Yes, full EMI from month 1
Total Moratorium:
Calculate
APPLY NOW
* (indicative,actual returns may vary)
Educational Subsidies Scheme
Educational Subsidies Scheme
Bank of Maharashtra provides Interest subsidies scheme for Education Loans, such as
1) CENTRAL SECTOR INTEREST SUBSIDY SCHEME
2) PADHO PARDESH - SCHEME OF INTEREST SUBSIDY ON EDUCATIONAL LOANS FOR OVERSEAS STUDIES FOR THE STUDENTS BELONGING TO THE MINORITY COMMUNITIES.
3) DR. AMBEDKAR CENTRAL SECTOR SCHEME OF INTEREST SUBSIDY ON EDUCATIONAL LOANS FOR OVERSEAS STUDIES FOR OTHER BACKWARD CLASSES (OBCs) AND ECONOMICALLY BACKWARD CLASSES (EBCs)
Click here
to Know More about the Subsidies
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is Education Loan and how does it work?
Education Loan is meant to provide financial assistance/ support to meritorious student for pursuing higher studies /education in courses conducted by the Premier Educational Institutions in India such as IIMs, ISB, IITs, NITs, XLRI, MBBS, Medical College etc.
Apart from these, Education Loans are also provided for Graduation courses/Colleges under Universities approved by UGC. Other courses leading to diploma / degree etc. conducted by colleges / universities approved by UGC / Govt. / AICTE / AIBMS / ICMR etc. in India.
For Studies Abroad, Education Loan is provided for Job oriented Professional/Technical / PG courses/ Post Graduation - MCA, MBA, MS etc.
What are the variants of Education Loans provided by Bank of Maharashtra?
Bank of Maharashtra provides three variants of Education Loans as under:
Maha Scholar Education Loan –Loan for pursuing higher studies in Premier Institutions in India
Model Education Loan- Loan for pursuing higher studies in India and abroad for recognized universities
Mahabank Skill Loan- Loan for Skill development courses
Maha Scholar Overseas Education loan- Loans is granted to deserving/meritorious students for pursuing full-time regular courses in premier foreign colleges/universities
Who can apply for Bank of Maharashtra Education Loan?
Eligible applicants include students seeking education at recognized institutions, both in India and abroad. The loan is open to Indian nationals with a secured admission offer.
What are the documents required for Education Loan?
You will need to furnish the following documents along with the completed application form. When the loan is jointly taken, relevant information would relate to the guardian and the student both.
Mark sheet of last qualifying examination for school and graduate studies in India
Proof of admission to the course
Schedule of expenses for the course
2 passport size photographs
Statement of Bank account for the last six months of borrower
Income tax assessment order not more than 2 years old
Brief statement of assets and liabilities of borrower.
For more details, please check
"Document Required"
section
If you are not an existing bank customer you would also need to establish your identity and give proof of residence.
Who can be a co-applicant in Education Loan?
Co-applicant should be parent/natural guardian of the student borrower. In case of married person, co-obligator can be spouse or the parent(s)/parents in law.
Is there any requirement for collateral or a co-borrower for Bank of Maharashtra Education loans?
As per Model education loan scheme devised by IBA and subsequently implemented by our bank, no collateral security is required for loansupto ₹ 7.50 lakhs and for loan above ₹ 7.50 lakhs, acceptable tangible security with sufficient margin is insisted from the borrowers.
Also, under “Maha scholar education loan scheme” of our Bank for students taking admission in Premier Institutes of India, no collateral security is required for loan upto ₹ 40.00 lakhs.
Are there any processing fees on Bank of Maharashtra Education Loans?
There is no processing fee irrespective of loan amount for Mahabank Scholar Loans for premier Institutes. For Mahabank Model Education Loans, there is a minimal Processing fee of 0.50% of the loan amount in case of studies abroad only& is refundable in case borrower takes up the course.
What is the repayment schedule for Bank of Maharashtra Education Loans?
Education loan is being extended for 15 years of tenure. The repayment would begin after one year of the course period or six months after you get a job, whichever is earlier.
What expenses does the Bank of Maharashtra education loan cover?
Bank of Maharashtra education loan covers various expenses like tuition fees, hostel fees, cost of books, Laptop/Computer cost etc.
What is the margin money required for Bank of Maharashtra Education Loans?
For Maha Scholar Education Loan, there is no margin required for Premier Institutions listed under List ‘A’. For List ‘B’ & ‘C’ category Institutes, a minimal 5% margin of the loan amount is required. Under Model Education Loan uptoRs. 4 lakhs, there is no margin required. Above 4 lakhs, there is a required of 5% margin for studies in India and 15% for Studies abroad.
Does Bank of Maharashtra offers any special interest rates concessions for education loans?
Yes, under Maha Scholar Education Loans, there is a concession of 0.10% in interest rate to Girl students. However, under Model Education Loan scheme, Bank offers interest concessions keeping the maximum concessions upto 0.50% for the following-
0.50% concession for girl students
0.50% concession to our existing Housing Loan borrower
Up to 0.25% for meritorious students.
From where I can get the application form?
To Download Form for Offline Application
Cick here
Internet Banking
Interest Rates
Housing Loan
7.35
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Car Loan
7.70
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
8.30
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Education Loan
7.10
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Deposit Schemes
7.20
% P.A*
Know More
Apply Online
Housing Loan
Apply Now!
e-GST Loan
Apply Now!
Car Loan
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
Apply Now!
Personal Loan
Apply Now!
Online SB Account
Open Now!
Downloads
Calculators
Service Charges
Public Information
Gallery
Social Activity
Assets for Sale
Tenders
Bank of Maharashtra, India's leading Public Sector Bank offers Deposits,Loans,Digital products for personal Banking, Corporates,MSMEs & NRI Customers
Bank of Maharashtra use cookies to enhance your experience on Bank’s website.
Read More...
By using our website, you agree to place these cookies on your device. You can disable/delete these cookies by changing your web browser settings. Bank of Maharashtra is not responsible for cookies placed in the device of user/s by any other website and information collected thereto.  Check out our
Cookie/Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
OK