Loan Guarantee Scheme for Covid Affected Sectors (LGSCAS)
Loan Guarantee Scheme for Covid Affected Sectors (LGSCAS)
Sr. No.
Parameters
Features
1.
Target Group
Projects in the healthcare sector for setting up of or modernising / expanding
Hospitals / dispensaries / clinics / medical colleges/ pathology labs / diagnostic centres;
facilities for manufacturing of vaccines/oxygen/ventilators/priority medical devices
Public healthcare facilities.
2.
Eligible Borrower
Existing units proposing to expand/diversify/set up eligible projects or new units setting up eligible projects in areas other than the 8 metropolitan cities.
The 8 metropolitan cities are municipal areas of Ahmedabad, Bangalore, Chennai, Hyderabad, Kolkata, Mumbai, New Delhi, & Pune cities.
3.
Eligibility Criteria
The eligibility criteria under the Scheme are as under:
Total loan requirement upto Rs.100 crore (including fund based and non-fund based facility);
Project coming up in a non-Metropolitan area;
Loans provided in individual capacity will not be covered under the Scheme.
4.
Scheme Duration
The Scheme would be applicable to all eligible loans sanctioned during the period from May 07, 2021
till March 31, 2023
, or till guarantees for an amount of Rs.50,000 Crore are issued under the scheme, whichever is earlier.
5
Nature of Facility
Term Loan, Cash Credit, Bank Guarantee, Letter of Credit.
6
Quantum of loan
Composite of both Fund & Non-Fund based funding
Minimum
: Above Rs.10.00 lakh
Maximum
: Up to Rs.100.00 crore
7
Margin
Term Loan - 25%
Cash Credit - 25% (Stocks), Receivables: 40%, Cover period: 90 days.
BG/LC – 25%
Margin may be reviewed
subject to minimum of 15% for TL and BG/LC and for Cash Credit 15% (stocks), Receivables: 25% with
cover period up to 90 days in following cases:
Hospital agrees to maintain escrow a/c for capturing cash flow.
The manufacturer is having a firm buying agreement from Govt./hospitals and agrees to maintain the escrow A/c.
8
Rate of Interest
For MSME units
RLLR linked: RLLR + 0.50 + 0.55% p.a.
For Non-MSME units
MCLR Liked: 1 year MCLR + 0.65% p.a.
Note: Rate of Interest shall be capped at 7.95 % p.a. till availability of the guarantee cover i.e. maximum for 5 years from the date of first disbursement. Rate of Interest should be reviewed by the sanctioning authority / Branch Manager after expiry of guarantee cover. (In line with Bank’ extant guidelines on rate of interest for respective advances at that time)
9
Repayment Period for Loan under this scheme
Cash Credit
: Yearly Renewal. Repayable on demand.
Term Loan:
Maximum period of 10 years including moratorium period.
Maximum moratorium 18 months for construction of Hospital / Nursing Home/ Clinic etc. (6 months in case of purchase of equipment only)
Repayment can be equated or customized in alignment with the estimated cash accrual of the unit.
10
Primary Security
Bank shall have
first charge
on the assets created/to be created out of the credit extended under LGSCAS. However, NCGTC shall have second charge on the assets financed under the scheme (under both greenfield and brownfield projects). Creation of the charge should be done immediately as per extant guidelines.
11
Collateral Security
Minimum: 25%
SARFAESI enabled collateral security needs to be obtained.
In case, collateral security is obtained then, the guarantee will be available only on the uncovered portion.
12
Guarantee coverage
The entire funding (without collateral coverage) provided under LGSCAS shall be provided with credit guarantee coverage by NCGTC under the Scheme, as per details below:
For Greenfield projects: 75% of funding
For Brownfield projects: 50% of funding
For all projects in aspirational districts:75% of funding
13
Time Period of Guarantee Cover
Guarantee under the scheme is available upto maximum 5 years from the date of first disbursement.
For brownfield projects
: available upto 2 years from the Date of Commencement of Commercial Operations (DCCO), subject to a maximum guarantee period of 5 years from the date of first disbursement. Hence, in such cases, if the commercial operations start say at the end of 2 years, guarantee shall be available upto 2 more years.
For greenfield projects
: available upto 5 years from the date of first disbursement. Hence, in such cases, guarantee shall continue to be available upto 5 years from the date of first disbursement, even if commercial operations commence earlier.
14
Guarantee Fee
Nil
15
All service charges
As per Bank’s extant Service Charges guidelines
16
Scheme Validity
The Scheme would be applicable to all eligible loans sanctioned during the period from May 07, 2021 till March 31, 2023, or till guarantees for an amount of Rs.50,000 crore are issued under the scheme, whichever is earlier.
Last date of first disbursement shall be within 3 months of sanction of facility, however, loans which were sanctioned prior to issuance of these revised guidelines shall be allowed additional time upto 3 months from the date of issue of the guidelines for first disbursement.
Internet Banking
Interest Rates
Housing Loan
7.35
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Car Loan
7.70
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
8.30
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Education Loan
7.10
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Deposit Schemes
7.20
% P.A*
Know More
Apply Online
Housing Loan
Apply Now!
e-GST Loan
Apply Now!
Car Loan
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
Apply Now!
Personal Loan
Apply Now!
Online SB Account
Open Now!
Downloads
Calculators
Service Charges
Public Information
Gallery
Social Activity
Assets for Sale
Tenders
Bank of Maharashtra, India's leading Public Sector Bank offers Deposits,Loans,Digital products for personal Banking, Corporates,MSMEs & NRI Customers
Bank of Maharashtra use cookies to enhance your experience on Bank’s website.
Read More...
By using our website, you agree to place these cookies on your device. You can disable/delete these cookies by changing your web browser settings. Bank of Maharashtra is not responsible for cookies placed in the device of user/s by any other website and information collected thereto.  Check out our
Cookie/Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
OK