Maha Super Flexi Housing Loan Scheme
Maha Super Flexi Housing Loan Scheme
(Term Loan linked with Saving Account.)
In this Home loan scheme, the borrowers’ account is linked to a dedicated savings account. So, when a borrower deposits the surplus money to the account, it will be considered credit towards the loan, thus reducing the interest on the outstanding loan amount. Also, if needed, the borrower has option to withdraw money whenever required. The loan will get rebalanced accordingly.
Key Features
Home Loan sanctioned will be linked with flexi home Saving account.
Borrower will have the option to deposit all his savings in the linked flexi home Saving account to avail maximum benefit of interest.
Credit Balance available in the linked flexi home Saving account at the end of the day will be counted for credit in linked Home Loan account.
Accordingly, the borrower will get the benefit of interest amount in the Home Loan to the extent of daily outstanding credit balance in the linked flexi home Saving Account Bank account.
Borrower is eligible for Cheque book facility, internet banking facility, and Mobile banking facility etc. as per normal Savings Bank rules.
Benefits to the borrowers
The surplus amount deposited could be utilized for his personal / business purpose whenever required.
The scheme offers liquidity as well as interest relief.
Maha Super Flexi Housing Loan – for New or existing house/flat and extension of existing house/flat
S.No
Particulars
Scheme guidelines
1
Nature of facility
Term Loan linked with Saving Account.
2
Purpose
For Purchase of ready built residential flat directly from the Builders/ Developers/Society/Other Agencies/Development Authority / etc.
For Purchase of new or existing house/flat not older than 30 years (Residual life of the building should be 5 Years more than the loan tenure at the time of sanction).
Takeover of existing Housing Loan accounts of the applicants under standard category availed from other Banks / Housing Financial Institutions
3
Eligibility
Individual salaried employees/ self-employed professionals/Businessman / Agriculturist
4
Eligible Quantum of Loan
Maximum loan amount will be lowest of loan amount assessed on the basis of
Permissible Deduction norms
Maximum permissible LTV ratio
Loan amount requested.
5
Loan Amount
Minimum
- Rs 50.00 Lakh
Maximum
- No Maximum Limit
6
Loan to value and Margins Norms
Category of Loan (Individual Home Loan amount)
LTV Ratio
Up to Rs.75.00 Lakh
80%
Above Rs.75.00
75%
7
Repayment period
Maximum Repayment period of
30 years
or on borrower reaching the age of 75 years whichever is earlier.
8
Rate of Interest
Additional 0.25% above the existing ROI as per “ Maha Super Housing Loan scheme” will be applicable.
9
Deduction
For Salaried individuals.
Up to 80% based on latest Gross monthly income
For Non-Salaried Individuals
Up to 80% based on average annual income
10
Flexi Credit Arrangement
The Home Loan sanctioned will be linked with flexi home Saving account.
The rate of interest applicable on this flexi home Saving account will be Zero
After full disbursement of Loan and other condition of loan gets completed, Borrower will be permitted to deposit surplus funds over and above stipulated EMIs in the Flexi SB account and also allowed to withdraw the surplus amount deposited in the account.
Any credit available in the linked Flexi home Saving account at the end of the day will be counted for credit in linked Home Loan account. The outstanding balance of Home Loan account and linked savings SB account will be netted on day end. Accordingly, interest will be charged to the Home Loan account netting credit balance available in the Flexi home Saving Account Bank account.
The per day interest calculation done in EOD in Flexi Home Loan account should be on Balance O/s of Loan Account less Credit Balance in linked Flexi Home SB account.
11
Security
Equitable / Registered Mortgage of Property.
12
Processing Fee
0.25 % of the loan amount (Subject to max. of Rs. 25,000/-)
(
currently waived up to 30.09.2024)
Full waiver of Processing Fee for Govt. /State /Central Government / Public sector Employees in case of Takeover Loans
Calculate EMI
Internet Banking
Interest Rates
Housing Loan
7.35
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Car Loan
7.70
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
8.30
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Education Loan
7.10
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Deposit Schemes
7.20
% P.A*
Know More
Apply Online
Housing Loan
Apply Now!
e-GST Loan
Apply Now!
Car Loan
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
Apply Now!
Personal Loan
Apply Now!
Online SB Account
Open Now!
Downloads
Calculators
Service Charges
Public Information
Gallery
Social Activity
Assets for Sale
Tenders
Bank of Maharashtra, India's leading Public Sector Bank offers Deposits,Loans,Digital products for personal Banking, Corporates,MSMEs & NRI Customers
Bank of Maharashtra use cookies to enhance your experience on Bank’s website.
Read More...
By using our website, you agree to place these cookies on your device. You can disable/delete these cookies by changing your web browser settings. Bank of Maharashtra is not responsible for cookies placed in the device of user/s by any other website and information collected thereto.  Check out our
Cookie/Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
OK