Topup Loan for Home loan borrowers
Topup Loan for Home loan borrowers
At Bank of Maharashtra, we recognize that your home is more than just a place to live - it's a canvas for your dreams and aspirations. That's why our top up loan on home loan offers the perfect solution for existing home loan customers who are looking to add value. Whether you are planning to furnish your home, fund necessary repairs, or renovate your home, our top up loan on home loan provides the ideal financial support without the burden of high costs.
Interest Rate
7.85
%P.A *
Get a Call Back
With attractive home loan top up interest rates, this financial solution extends hassle free financial assistance for requirements related to renovation & furnishing. Our top up loan on home loan is specifically designed to ensure that our customers can comfortably fund their new needs with the same assurance and trust they experienced when they first chose us.
In case you have any such requirement, please reach out to us or visit your nearest branch to assist you in obtaining a top up loan on home loan. Step into a future where your home grows with you, powered by the Bank of Maharashtra’s reliable financial solutions.
Features & Benefits
Documents Required
Interest Rates
EMI Calculator
Check Eligibility
FAQs
Features & Benefits
Features and benefits of Topup Loan
Higher Loan Amount
Higher Repayment Tenure
No Hidden Charges
No Prepayment Penalty
Maximum loan amount upto Rs.10.00 Cr.
Maximum repayment period of upto 180 months
Maximum Age at maturity of loan at 75 years
Loan for purpose such as marriage, education etc.
Documents Required
Documents required for Topup Loan
Application form duly complete and signed.
Two Passport Size Photographs.
Proof of Identification : (any one)
Election ID Card
Pan Card
Aadhar Card
Driving License
Photo Identity card issued by the current Employer
Passport
Proof of Residence : (any one)
Electricity Bill
Election ID Card
Telephone Bill (Landline)
Aadhar Card
Driving License
Photo Identity card issued by the current Employer
Passport
For Salaried Persons
Original/Certified copy of the latest salary slips for the past 3 months
Copies of IT returns of last 2 years duly acknowledged by IT Dept/IT assessment orders or Form 16 for last 2 years from the Employer.
Undertaking from employer for remittance of monthly installment, wherever feasible.
Bank Account (Salaried Account) statement for the last 6 months (in case of other Bank)
For Non-Salaried Class /Businessman /Professional
Latest 3 years of IT returns (2 years in case of Professionals) including computation of income, profit and Loss Account, Balance sheet, Audit Report etc.
Shop Establishment Act
Tax Registration Copy
Company Registration License
Bank statement for past one year
Guarantor forms along with net worth proof /income proof (if applicable)
Guarantor’s IT return along with KYC documents as mentioned in point 3 & 4
In case of Takeover(Refinance):
Loan Outstanding statement as on date
Loan account statement for last 12 months
Documents Acknowledgement Receipt from Bank
Property Documents:
Receipts for payments made for purchase of the residential unit
Copy of approved drawings of proposed construction/purchase
Permission from competent authority for construction of flat/house
Permission from competent authority under Urban Land ceiling & Regulation Act 1976
Agreement of Sale/Sale Deed/Detailed cost estimate from Regd.Architect/Engineer for the property to be constructed.
Allotment letter from the Builder/Co-operative Society/Development Authorities/Association of apartment owners etc.
Other documents depending upon:
Property to be purchased directly from Builder (Ready/Under-construction)
Property belonging to a Registered Co-operative Housing Society
Purchase in resale.
Direct sale by any Development authority
Construction of house on separate plot of land.
Additional Documents for NRIs
Copy of employment Contract (if the contract is in any language other than English, the same has to be translated into English and attested by Employer /Indian Embassy)
Copy of Identity Card issued by the current Employer
Continuous Discharge certificate, if applicable
Copy of latest work permit
Copy of Visa stamped on the passport
NRE Bank account passbook or statement of account
Overseas Bank account statements for last 6 months in which salary is credited
A Salary certificate/income statement duly attested by out foreign office including subsidiary office/certified by the competent authority available in the country may be produced. This may also include Chartered /Certified Accountants, Officials of Inland Revenue dept.(similar to Income Tax Authorities in India) or any other agency specified for the purpose. Where ever attestation is not possible, this may be submitted duly notarized.
Additional Documents for PIOs
A photocopy of PIO card or any of the under noted documents:-
Current Passport indicating birth place of India/Abroad
Indian Passport, if held earlier
Parents or grandparents passport with details there in substantiating his claim of being PIO.
Interest Rates
Topup Loan Interest Rates
Bank of Maharashtra helps you for any personal purpose such as meeting expenditure on Children's Education, Marriage of Children, Medical treatment etc other than speculative purpose. The
EMI Calculator
on the website works this out for you. Check your eligibility, upload your documents and obtain instant in-principle sanction.
Topup Loan Interest Rate
7.85
%P.A *
CIBIL Score
Rate of Interest
800 & above
Premium of 50 bps over & above applicable ROI for Maha Super Housing Loan based on CIBIL score structure.
750 to 799
Premium of 75 bps over & above applicable ROI for Maha Super Housing Loan based on CIBIL score structure.
700 to 749
Premium of 100 bps over & above applicable ROI for Maha Super Housing Loan based on CIBIL score structure.
Fore more Interest Rates & Charges
Click here
EMI Calculator
Topup Loan EMI Calculator
Principal Loan Amount
*
:
Interest Rate ( % p.a )
*
:
Loan Term (Years)
*
:
SHOW EMI
Check Eligibility
Topup Loan Eligibility
All Existing Home Loan Borrowers including NRIs /PIOs and Staff Members who have availed Home Loan under Public scheme as well as under Staff Housing Loans schemes whose conduct of the account is satisfactory and the account is classified as Standard Asset category.
Satisfactory repayment track record of
last 12 months in existing Housing Loan (either with our Bank or Other Bank /FI in case of takeover).
Old Housing Loan borrowers (Regular and Standard only) of our bank who have repaid and closed their existing housing loan are eligible for Top up loan.
Property should be in the name and possession of the Borrower. Loan shouldn’t be considered for under construction Property.
CIBIL score of the borrowers shall be 700 & above
.
FAQs
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is a Top-Up Loan?
A Top-Up Loan is an additional loan that can be availed by existing housing loan borrowers to meet various personal purpose such as meeting expenditure on Children's Education, Marriage of Children, Medical treatment etc. other than speculative purpose. It is secured against the same property that is already mortgaged for the existing housing loan.
Who is eligible for a Top-Up Loan?
Borrowers including NRIs/PIOs who have an existing housing loan with a good repayment track record of last 12 months in existing Housing Loan. The property against which the original housing loan was sanctioned will continue as security for the top-up loan.
What is the maximum loan amount I can get through the Top-Up Loan?
The maximum top-up loan amount is 200% of the existing housing loan Sanctioned Limit or Rs. 10 Crore, whichever is lower.
What is the Loan to Value (LTV) ratio for a Top-Up Loan?
For loans up to Rs. 75 Lakhs: The LTV ratio is 80% with a 20% margin.
For loans above Rs. 75 Lakhs: The LTV ratio is 75% with a 25% margin.
What is the repayment period for the Top-Up Loan?
The repayment period for the top-up loan is aligned with the existing home loan, up to a maximum of 180 months or until the borrower reaches the age of 75 years, whichever is earlier.
What is the maximum quantum of loan?
Minimum Loan Amount: Rs. 1 Lakh
Maximum Loan Amount: Rs. 10 Crore
The loan quantum may be up to 200% of the Housing Loan sanction limit for those who have repaid for more than 2 years after commencement of repayment, or Rs. 10 crore, whichever is lower.
For Housing loans who have repaid for more than 1 year and upto 2 years after commencement of repayment, the loan quantum may be 125% of Housing Loan sanction limit.
What is the maximum age at loan maturity?
The age at loan maturity should not exceed 75 years. This is subject to an assessment of the applicant's income to ensure they can meet repayment obligations until the age of 75 years.
For individuals with income only up to 60 years, the loan term should not exceed the age of 60 years unless there is a proven source of income post-retirement.
What are the interest rates on the Top-Up Loan?
Interest rates for the top-up loan are competitive and depend on various factors, including the borrower’s CIBIL score. Presently, Rate of Interest starts at ‘Home Loan rate + 0.50% p.a’.
What is the moratorium period for the loan?
There is no moratorium period; the repayment starts from next month after loan sanction.
Are co-applicants required for a top-up loan?
Yes, all co-owners of the property and co-applicants on the existing home loan must be included as co-applicants for the top-up loan.
What is the maximum number of top-up loans allowed?
A maximum of two top-up loans can be taken against the same property, subject to LTV norms.
Are there any processing charges for the Top-Up Loan?
Yes, the processing charges are 0.50% of the loan amount, with a maximum of Rs. 50,000/- excluding GST.
How is the Top-Up Loan disbursed?
The loan can be disbursed as a lump sum or in stages, depending on the borrower’s requirements. The amount is usually credited to the borrower's Savings/Current account through RTGS/NEFT.
Can I use the Top-Up Loan for any purpose?
Yes, the top-up loan can be used for a various personal purpose such as meeting expenditure on Children's Education, Marriage of Children, Medical treatment etc. other than speculative purpose.
What security is required for the Top-Up Loan?
The top-up loan is secured against the same property that is mortgaged for the existing home loan.
Can I prepay my Top-Up Loan without any penalties?
Yes, there are no prepayment charges for the Top-Up Loan.
How to Apply
How to Apply TopUp Loan
Scan this Code to see
How to Apply for Digital Loans Online
Follow the step by step instructions to avail digital loan facility from our bank.
Please click on the following link to view
how to apply for Digital Loan Online:
How to Apply for Digital Loans Online
Similar Products
Purchase of New House/Flat
Bank of Maharashtra provide loan for purchase a new house or for purchase a flat.
KNOW MORE
Home Extension Loan
It is a loan to extend or add space to your home such as additional rooms and floors etc.
KNOW MORE
Plot Purchase Loan
For purchase of a plot through direct allotment or a second sale transaction as well...
KNOW MORE
House Renovation Loans
It is a loan for renovating your home in many ways such as tiling, flooring and painting etc.
KNOW MORE
Internet Banking
Interest Rates
Housing Loan
7.35
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Car Loan
7.70
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
8.30
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Education Loan
7.10
% P.A*
Apply Now!
Deposit Schemes
7.20
% P.A*
Know More
Apply Online
Housing Loan
Apply Now!
e-GST Loan
Apply Now!
Car Loan
Apply Now!
Gold Loan
Apply Now!
Personal Loan
Apply Now!
Online SB Account
Open Now!
Downloads
Calculators
Service Charges
Public Information
Gallery
Social Activity
Assets for Sale
Tenders
Bank of Maharashtra, India's leading Public Sector Bank offers Deposits,Loans,Digital products for personal Banking, Corporates,MSMEs & NRI Customers
Bank of Maharashtra use cookies to enhance your experience on Bank’s website.
Read More...
By using our website, you agree to place these cookies on your device. You can disable/delete these cookies by changing your web browser settings. Bank of Maharashtra is not responsible for cookies placed in the device of user/s by any other website and information collected thereto.  Check out our
Cookie/Privacy Policy and Terms & Conditions.
OK